In 2003–2004 we saw the emergence of SARS, Avian influenza and Anthrax in a man made form used for bioterrorism. Emergency powers legislation in Australia is a patchwork of Commonwealth quarantine laws and State and Territory based emergency powers in public health legislation. It is time for a review of such legislation and time for consideration of the efficacy of such legislation from a country wide perspective in an age when we have to consider the possibility of mass outbreaks of communicable diseases which ignore jurisdictional boundaries."
 In 2003, the major public health policy developments in communicable disease control were in the fields of SARS, and vaccine funding, whilst the TGA was focused on the Pan Pharmaceutical crisis. Programs directed to health maintenance and healthy ageing were approved. The tertiary education sector was involved in the development of programs for training the public health workforce and new professional qualifications and competencies. The Abelson Report received support from overseas experts, providing a potential platform for calls to improve national funding for future Australian preventive programs; however, inconsistencies continued across all jurisdictions in their approaches to tackling national health priorities. The rationale behind starting a journal dedicated to globalization and health is three fold: Firstly: Globalization is reshaping the social geography within which we might strive to create health or prevent disease. The determinants of health – be they a SARS virus or a predilection for fatty foods – have joined us in our global mobility. Driven by economic liberalization and changing technologies, the phenomenon of 'access' is likely to dominate to an increasing extent the unfolding experience of human disease and wellbeing. Secondly: Understanding globalization as a subject matter itself needs certain benchmarks and barometers of its successes and failings.
,"BACKGROUND: As a number of commentators have noted, SARS exposed the vulnerabilities of our health care systems and governance structures. Health care professionals (HCPs) and hospital systems that bore the brunt of the SARS outbreak continue to struggle with the aftermath of the crisis. Indeed, HCPs – both in clinical care and in public health – were severely tested by SARS. Unprecedented demands were placed on their skills and expertise, and their personal commitment to their profession was severely tried. Many were exposed to serious risk of morbidity and mortality, as evidenced by the World Health Organization figures showing that approximately 30% of reported cases were among HCPs, some of whom died from the infection. Despite this challenge, professional codes of ethics are silent on the issue of duty to care during communicable disease outbreaks, thus providing no guidance on what is expected of HCPs or how they ought to approach their duty to care in the face of risk. DISCUSSION: In the aftermath of SARS and with the spectre of a pandemic avian influenza, it is imperative that we (re)consider the obligations of HCPs for patients with severe infectious diseases, particularly diseases that pose risks to those providing care. It is of pressing importance that organizations representing HCPs give clear indication of what standard of care is expected of their members in the event of a pandemic. In this paper, we address the issue of special obligations of HCPs during an infectious disease outbreak. We argue that there is a pressing need to clarify the rights and responsibilities of HCPs in the current context of pandemic flu preparedness, and that these rights and responsibilities ought to be codified in professional codes of ethics. Finally, we present a brief historical accounting of the treatment of the duty to care in professional health care codes of ethics. 
78,"BACKGROUND: Planning for the next pandemic influenza outbreak is underway in hospitals across the world. The global SARS experience has taught us that ethical frameworks to guide decision-making may help to reduce collateral damage and increase trust and solidarity within and between health care organisations. Good pandemic planning requires reflection on values because science alone cannot tell us how to prepare for a public health crisis. DISCUSSION: In this paper, we present an ethical framework for pandemic influenza planning. The ethical framework was developed with expertise from clinical, organisational and public health ethics and validated through a stakeholder engagement process. The ethical framework includes both substantive and procedural elements for ethical pandemic influenza planning. The incorporation of ethics into pandemic planning can be helped by senior hospital administrators sponsoring its use, by having stakeholders vet the framework, and by designing or identifying decision review processes. We discuss the merits and limits of an applied ethical framework for hospital decision-making, as well as the robustness of the framework. SUMMARY: The need for reflection on the ethical issues raised by the spectre of a pandemic influenza outbreak is great. Our efforts to address the normative aspects of pandemic planning in hospitals have generated interest from other hospitals and from the governmental sector. The framework will require re-evaluation and refinement and we hope that this paper will generate feedback on how to make it even more robust."
81,"BACKGROUND: Contact tracing plays an important role in the control of emerging infectious diseases, but little is known yet about its effectiveness. Here we deduce from a generic mathematical model how effectiveness of tracing relates to various aspects of time, such as the course of individual infectivity, the (variability in) time between infection and symptom-based detection, and delays in the tracing process. In addition, the possibility of iteratively tracing of yet asymptomatic infecteds is considered. With these insights we explain why contact tracing was and will be effective for control of smallpox and SARS, only partially effective for foot-and-mouth disease, and likely not effective for influenza. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We investigate contact tracing in a model of an emerging epidemic that is flexible enough to use for most infections. We consider isolation of symptomatic infecteds as the basic scenario, and express effectiveness as the proportion of contacts that need to be traced for a reproduction ratio smaller than 1. We obtain general results for special cases, which are interpreted with respect to the likely success of tracing for influenza, smallpox, SARS, and foot-and-mouth disease epidemics. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that (1) there is no general predictive formula for the proportion to be traced as there is for the proportion to be vaccinated; (2) variability in time to detection is favourable for effective tracing; (3) tracing effectiveness need not be sensitive to the duration of the latent period and tracing delays; (4) iterative tracing primarily improves effectiveness when single-step tracing is on the brink of being effective."
146,"BACKGROUND: AIDS, SARS, and the recent epidemics of the avian-flu have all served to remind us the debate over the limits of the moral duty to care. It is important to first consider the question of whether or not the ""duty to treat"" might be subject to contextual constraints. The purpose of this study was to investigate the opinions and beliefs held by both physicians and dentists regarding the occupational risks of infectious diseases, and to analyze the argument that the notion of ""presumed consent"" on the part of professionals may be grounds for supporting the duty to treat. METHODS: For this cross-sectional survey, the study population was selected from among physicians and dentists in Ankara. All of the 373 participants were given a self-administered questionnaire. RESULTS: In total, 79.6% of the participants said that they either had some degree of knowledge about the risks when they chose their profession or that they learned of the risks later during their education and training. Of the participants, 5.2% said that they would not have chosen this profession if they had been informed of the risks. It was found that 57% of the participants believed that there is a standard level of risk, and 52% of the participants stated that certain diseases would exceed the level of acceptable risk unless specific protective measures were implemented. CONCLUSION: If we use the presumed consent argument to establish the duty of the HCW to provide care, we are confronted with problems ranging over the difficulty of choosing a profession autonomously, the constant level of uncertainty present in the medical profession, the near-impossibility of being able to evaluate retrospectively whether every individual was informed, and the seemingly inescapable problem that this practice would legitimize, and perhaps even foster, discrimination against patients with certain diseases. Our findings suggest that another problem can be added to the list: one-fifth of the participants in this study either lacked adequate knowledge of the occupational risks when they chose the medical profession or were not sufficiently informed of these risks during their faculty education and training. Furthermore, in terms of the moral duty to provide care, it seems that most HCWs are more concerned about the availability of protective measures than about whether they had been informed of a particular risk beforehand. For all these reasons, the presumed consent argument is not persuasive enough, and cannot be used to justify the duty to provide care. It is therefore more useful to emphasize justifications other than presumed consent when defining the duty of HCWs to provide care, such as the social contract between society and the medical profession and the fact that HCWs have a greater ability to provide medical aid." 
188,"BACKGROUND: Hospital preparedness is critical for the early detection and management of public health emergency (PHE). Understanding the current status of PHE preparedness is the first step in planning to enhance hospitals' capacities for emergency response. The objective of this study is to understand the current status of hospital PHE preparedness in China. METHODS: Four hundred hospitals in four city and provinces of China were surveyed using a standardized questionnaire. Data related to hospital demographic data; PHE preparation; response to PHE in community; stockpiles of drugs and materials; detection and identification of PHE; procedures for medical treatment; laboratory diagnosis and management; staff training; and risk communication were collected and analyzed. RESULTS: Valid responses were received from 318 (79.5%) of the 400 hospitals surveyed. Of the valid responses, 264 (85.2%) hospitals had emergency plans; 93.3% had command centres and personnel for PHE; 22.9% included community organisations during the training for PHE; 97.4% could transport needed medical staff to a PHE; 53.1% had evaluated stockpiles of drugs; 61.5% had evaluated their supply systems; 55.5% had developed surveillance systems; and 74.6% could monitor the abnormity(See in appendix). Physicians in 80.2% of the analyzed hospitals reported up-to-date knowledge of their institution's PHE protocol. Of the 318 respondents, 97.4% followed strict laboratory regulations, however, only about 33.5% had protocols for suspected samples. Furthermore, only 59.0% could isolate and identify salmonella and staphylococcus and less than 5% could isolate and identify human H5N1 avian flu and SARS. Staff training or drill programs were reported in 94.5% of the institutions; 50.3% periodically assessed the efficacy of staff training; 45% had experts to provide psychological counselling; 12.1% had provided training for their medical staff to assess PHE-related stress. All of the above capacities related to the demographic characteristics of hospitals and will be discussed in-depth in this paper. CONCLUSION: Our survey suggested that, at the time of the survey, hospital preparedness for PHE in China was at an early stage of development. Comprehensive measures should be taken to enhance hospital capacity in the prevention and management of PHE."
203,"Antiviral agents have been hailed to hold considerable promise for the treatment and prevention of emerging viral diseases like H5N1 avian influenza and SARS. However, antiviral drugs are not completely harmless, and the conditions under which individuals are willing to participate in a large-scale antiviral drug treatment program are as yet unknown. We provide population dynamical and game theoretical analyses of large-scale prophylactic antiviral treatment programs. Throughout we compare the antiviral control strategy that is optimal from the public health perspective with the control strategy that would evolve if individuals make their own, rational decisions. To this end we investigate the conditions under which a large-scale antiviral control program can prevent an epidemic, and we analyze at what point in an unfolding epidemic the risk of infection starts to outweigh the cost of antiviral treatment. This enables investigation of how the optimal control strategy is moulded by the efficacy of antiviral drugs, the risk of mortality by antiviral prophylaxis, and the transmissibility of the pathogen. Our analyses show that there can be a strong incentive for an individual to take less antiviral drugs than is optimal from the public health perspective. In particular, when public health asks for early and aggressive control to prevent or curb an emerging pathogen, for the individual antiviral drug treatment is attractive only when the risk of infection has become non-negligible. It is even possible that from a public health perspective a situation in which everybody takes antiviral drugs is optimal, while the process of individual choice leads to a situation where nobody is willing to take antiviral drugs."
340,"BACKGROUND: Clearly air travel, by transporting infectious individuals from one geographic location to another, significantly affects the rate of spread of influenza A (H1N1). However, the possibility of within-flight transmission of H1N1 has not been evaluated; although it is known that smallpox, measles, tuberculosis, SARS and seasonal influenza can be transmitted during commercial flights. Here we present the first quantitative risk assessment to assess the potential for within-flight transmission of H1N1. METHODS: We model airborne transmission of infectious viral particles of H1N1 within a Boeing 747 using methodology from the field of quantitative microbial risk assessment. RESULTS: The risk of catching H1N1 will essentially be confined to passengers travelling in the same cabin as the source case. Not surprisingly, we find that the longer the flight the greater the number of infections that can be expected. We calculate that H1N1, even during long flights, poses a low to moderate within-flight transmission risk if the source case travels First Class. Specifically, 0-1 infections could occur during a 5 hour flight, 1-3 during an 11 hour flight and 2-5 during a 17 hour flight. However, within-flight transmission could be significant, particularly during long flights, if the source case travels in Economy Class. Specifically, two to five infections could occur during a 5 hour flight, 5-10 during an 11 hour flight and 7-17 during a 17 hour flight. If the aircraft is only partially loaded, under certain conditions more infections could occur in First Class than in Economy Class. During a 17 hour flight, a greater number of infections would occur in First Class than in Economy if the First Class Cabin is fully occupied, but Economy class is less than 30% full. CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide insights into the potential utility of air travel restrictions on controlling influenza pandemics in the winter of 2009/2010. They show travel by one infectious individual, rather than causing a single outbreak of H1N1, could cause several simultaneous outbreaks. These results imply that, during a pandemic, quarantining passengers who travel in Economy on long-haul flights could potentially be an important control strategy. Notably, our results show that quarantining passengers who travel First Class would be unlikely to be an effective control strategy."
344,"On June 11, 2009, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of novel influenza A (H1N1) a pandemic. With limited supplies of antivirals and vaccines, countries and individuals are looking at other ways to reduce the spread of pandemic (H1N1) 2009, particularly options that are cost effective and relatively easy to implement. Recent experiences with the 2003 SARS and 2009 H1N1 epidemics have shown that people are willing to wear facemasks to protect themselves against infection; however, little research has been done to quantify the impact of using facemasks in reducing the spread of disease. We construct and analyze a mathematical model for a population in which some people wear facemasks during the pandemic and quantify impact of these masks on the spread of influenza. To estimate the parameter values used for the effectiveness of facemasks, we used available data from studies on N95 respirators and surgical facemasks. The results show that if N95 respirators are only 20% effective in reducing susceptibility and infectivity, only 10% of the population would have to wear them to reduce the number of influenza A (H1N1) cases by 20%. We can conclude from our model that, if worn properly, facemasks are an effective intervention strategy in reducing the spread of pandemic (H1N1) 2009."
380,"As part of the PLoS Medicine series on Global Health Diplomacy, Lai-Han Chan and colleagues provide a case study of China's growing engagement in global health diplomacy following the SARS epidemic."
390,"In the wake of the SARS epidemic and the H1N1 pandemic, the PLoS Medicine editors ask whether journal publishing is an efficient enough mechanism for information sharing."
709,"BACKGROUND: Recent incidents, such as the SARS and influenza epidemics, have highlighted the need for readily available antiviral drugs. One important precursor currently used for the production of Relenza, an antiviral product from GlaxoSmithKline, is N-acetylneuraminic acid (NeuNAc). This substance has a considerably high market price despite efforts to develop cost-reducing (biotechnological) production processes. Hypocrea jecorina (Trichoderma reesei) is a saprophyte noted for its abundant secretion of hydrolytic enzymes and its potential to degrade chitin to its monomer N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc). Chitin is considered the second most abundant biomass available on earth and therefore an attractive raw material. RESULTS: In this study, we introduced two enzymes from bacterial origin into Hypocrea, which convert GlcNAc into NeuNAc via N-acetylmannosamine. This enabled the fungus to produce NeuNAc from the cheap starting material chitin in liquid culture. Furthermore, we expressed the two recombinant enzymes as GST-fusion proteins and developed an enzyme assay for monitoring their enzymatic functionality. Finally, we demonstrated that Hypocrea does not metabolize NeuNAc and that no NeuNAc-uptake by the fungus occurs, which are important prerequisites for a potential production strategy. CONCLUSIONS: This study is a proof of concept for the possibility to engineer in a filamentous fungus a bacterial enzyme cascade, which is fully functional. Furthermore, it provides the basis for the development of a process for NeuNAc production as well as a general prospective design for production processes that use saprophytes as whole-cell catalysts."
941,"BACKGROUND: Prior to the availability of the specific pandemic vaccine, strategies to mitigate the impact of the disease typically involved antiviral treatment and “non-pharmaceutical” community interventions. However, compliance with these strategies is linked to risk perceptions, perceived severity and perceived effectiveness of the strategies. In 2010, we undertook a study to examine the knowledge, attitudes, risk perceptions, practices and barriers towards influenza and infection control strategies amongst domestic and international university students. METHODS: A study using qualitative methods that incorporated 20 semi-structured interviews was undertaken with domestic and international undergraduate and postgraduate university students based at one university in Sydney, Australia. Participants were invited to discuss their perceptions of influenza (seasonal vs. pandemic) in terms of perceived severity and impact, and attitudes towards infection control measures including hand-washing and the use of social distancing, isolation or cough etiquette. RESULTS: While participants were generally knowledgeable about influenza transmission, they were unable to accurately define what ‘pandemic influenza’ meant. While avian flu or SARS were mistaken as examples of past pandemics, almost all participants were able to associate the recent “swine flu” situation as an example of a pandemic event. Not surprisingly, it was uncommon for participants to identify university students as being at risk of catching pandemic influenza. Amongst those interviewed, it was felt that ‘students’ were capable of fighting off any illness. The participant’s nominated hand washing as the most feasible and acceptable compared with social distancing and mask use. CONCLUSIONS: Given the high levels of interaction that occurs in a university setting, it is really important that students are informed about disease transmission and about risk of infection. It may be necessary to emphasize that pandemic influenza could pose a real threat to them, that it is important to protect oneself from infection and that infection control measures can be effective."
1088,"RNA viruses are the causative agents for AIDS, influenza, SARS, and other serious health threats. Development of rapid and broadly applicable methods for complete viral genome sequencing is highly desirable to fully understand all aspects of these infectious agents as well as for surveillance of viral pandemic threats and emerging pathogens. However, traditional viral detection methods rely on prior sequence or antigen knowledge. In this study, we describe sequence-independent amplification for samples containing ultra-low amounts of viral RNA coupled with Illumina sequencing and de novo assembly optimized for viral genomes. With 5 million reads, we capture 96 to 100% of the viral protein coding region of HIV, respiratory syncytial and West Nile viral samples from as little as 100 copies of viral RNA. The methods presented here are scalable to large numbers of samples and capable of generating full or near full length viral genomes from clone and clinical samples with low amounts of viral RNA, without prior sequence information and in the presence of substantial host contamination."
1350,"BACKGROUND: H7N9 posed potentially serious health challenges for Chinese society. The previous SARS outbreak in this country was accompanied by contradictory information, while worries about wide-spread influenza led to discrimination worldwide. Early understanding of public threat perceptions is therefore important for effective public health communication and intervention. METHODS: We interviewed 1011 respondents by phone two weeks after the first case. Questions examined risk awareness and media use, beliefs about the emergence of the threat and those most at risk, anxiety about infection and preventive and avoidant behaviours. RESULTS: Results demonstrate moderate levels of anxiety but relatively high levels of trust towards government officials. Threat emergence was associated with hygiene levels, temperature change, floating pigs in the Huangpu River and migration to the city. Anxiety predicted both recommended and non-recommended behavioural changes. CONCLUSIONS: Comparatively high levels of trust in Chinese government advice about H7N9 contrast positively with previous pandemic communications in China. Anxiety helped drive both recommended and non-recommended behaviours, with potentially important economic and social implications. This included evidence of 'othering’ of those associated with the threat (e.g. migrants). Findings emphasise the need to manage public communications early during new influenza outbreaks."
1521,"OBJECTIVE: To describe an innovative approach for developing and implementing an in-service curriculum in China for staff of the newly established health emergency response offices (HEROs), and that is generalisable to other settings. METHODS: The multi-method training needs assessment included reviews of the competency domains needed to implement the International Health Regulations (2005) as well as China’s policies and emergency regulations. The review, iterative interviews and workshops with experts in government, academia, the military, and with HERO staff were reviewed critically by an expert technical advisory panel. FINDINGS: Over 1600 participants contributed to curriculum development. Of the 18 competency domains identified as essential for HERO staff, nine were developed into priority in-service training modules to be conducted over 2.5 weeks. Experts from academia and experienced practitioners prepared and delivered each module through lectures followed by interactive problem-solving exercises and desktop simulations to help trainees apply, experiment with, and consolidate newly acquired knowledge and skills. CONCLUSION: This study adds to the emerging literature on China’s enduring efforts to strengthen its emergency response capabilities since the outbreak of SARS in 2003. The multi-method approach to curriculum development in partnership with senior policy-makers, researchers, and experienced practitioners can be applied in other settings to ensure training is responsive and customized to local needs, resources and priorities. Ongoing curriculum development should reflect international standards and be coupled with the development of appropriate performance support systems at the workplace for motivating staff to apply their newly acquired knowledge and skills effectively and creatively."
1575,"BACKGROUND: Bats are a major source of new and emerging viral diseases. Despite the fact that bats carry and shed highly pathogenic viruses including Ebola, Nipah and SARS, they rarely display clinical symptoms of infection. Host factors influencing viral replication are poorly understood in bats and are likely to include both pre- and post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms. MicroRNAs are a major mechanism of post-transcriptional gene regulation, however very little is known about them in bats. RESULTS: This study describes 399 microRNAs identified by deep sequencing of small RNA isolated from tissues of the Black flying fox, Pteropus alecto, a confirmed natural reservoir of the human pathogens Hendra virus and Australian bat lyssavirus. Of the microRNAs identified, more than 100 are unique amongst vertebrates, including a subset containing mutations in critical seed regions. Clusters of rapidly-evolving microRNAs were identified, as well as microRNAs predicted to target genes involved in antiviral immunity, the DNA damage response, apoptosis and autophagy. Closer inspection of the predicted targets for several highly supported novel miRNA candidates suggests putative roles in host-virus interaction. CONCLUSIONS: MicroRNAs are likely to play major roles in regulating virus-host interaction in bats, via dampening of inflammatory responses (limiting the effects of immunopathology), and directly limiting the extent of viral replication, either through restricting the availability of essential factors or by controlling apoptosis. Characterisation of the bat microRNA repertoire is an essential step towards understanding transcriptional regulation during viral infection, and will assist in the identification of mechanisms that enable bats to act as natural virus reservoirs. This in turn will facilitate the development of antiviral strategies for use in humans and other species. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/1471-2164-15-682) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users."
1909,"Dengue genome encodes a two component protease complex (NS2B-NS3pro) essential for the viral maturation/infectivity, thus representing a key drug target. Previously, due to its “complete insolubility”, the isolated NS3pro could not be experimentally studied and it remains elusive what structure it adopts without NS2B and why NS2B is indispensable. Here as facilitated by our previous discovery, the isolated NS3pro has been surprisingly deciphered by NMR to be the first intrinsically-disordered chymotrypsin-like fold, which exists in a loosely-packed state with non-native long-range interactions as revealed by paramagnetic relaxation enhancement (PRE). The disordered NS3pro appears to be needed for binding a human host factor to trigger the membrane remodeling. Moreover, we have in vitro refolded the NS3pro in complex with either NS2B (48–100) or the full-length NS2B (1–130) anchored into the LMPC micelle, and the two complexes have similar activities but different dynamics. We also performed molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and the results revealed that NS2B shows the highest structural fluctuations in the complex, thus providing the dynamic basis for the observation on its conformational exchange between open and closed states. Remarkably, the NS2B cofactor plays a central role in maintaining the correlated motion network required for the catalysis as we previously decoded for the SARS 3CL protease. Indeed, a truncated NS2B (48–100;?77–84) with the flexible loop deleted is able to trap the NS2B-NS3pro complex in a highly dynamic and catalytically-impotent state. Taken together, our study implies potential strategies to perturb the NS2B-NS3pro interface for design of inhibitors for treating dengue infection."
1947,"Emerging and re-emerging infections such as SARS (2003) and pandemic H1N1 (2009) have caused concern for public health researchers and policy makers due to the increased burden of these diseases on health care systems. This concern has prompted the use of mathematical models to evaluate strategies to control disease spread, making these models invaluable tools to identify optimal intervention strategies. A particularly important quantity in infectious disease epidemiology is the basic reproduction number, R(0.) Estimation of this quantity is crucial for effective control responses in the early phase of an epidemic. In our previous study, an approach for estimating the basic reproduction number in real time was developed. This approach uses case notification data and the structure of potential transmission contacts to accurately estimate R(0) from the limited amount of information available at the early stage of an outbreak. Based on this approach, we extend the existing methodology; the most recent method features intra- and inter-age groups contact heterogeneity. Given the number of newly reported cases at the early stage of the outbreak, with parsimony assumptions on removal distribution and infectivity profile of the diseases, experiments to estimate real time R(0) under different levels of intra- and inter-group contact heterogeneity using two age groups are presented. We show that the new method converges more quickly to the actual value of R(0) than the previous one, in particular when there is high-level intra-group and inter-group contact heterogeneity. With the age specific contact patterns, number of newly reported cases, removal distribution, and information about the natural history of the 2009 pandemic influenza in Hong Kong, we also use the extended model to estimate R(0) and age-specific R(0)."
2344,"In this study, we present representative human contact networks among Chinese college students. Unlike schools in the US, human contacts within Chinese colleges are extremely clustered, partly due to the highly organized lifestyle of Chinese college students. Simulations of influenza spreading across real contact networks are in good accordance with real influenza records; however, epidemic simulations across idealized scale-free or small-world networks show considerable overestimation of disease prevalence, thus challenging the widely-applied idealized human contact models in epidemiology. Furthermore, the special contact pattern within Chinese colleges results in disease spreading patterns distinct from those of the US schools. Remarkably, class cancelation, though simple, shows a mitigating power equal to quarantine/vaccination applied on ~25% of college students, which quantitatively explains its success in Chinese colleges during the SARS period. Our findings greatly facilitate reliable prediction of epidemic prevalence, and thus should help establishing effective strategies for respiratory infectious diseases control."
2356,"Gain-of-function (GOF) research involves experimentation that aims or is expected to (and/or, perhaps, actually does) increase the transmissibility and/or virulence of pathogens. Such research, when conducted by responsible scientists, usually aims to improve understanding of disease causing agents, their interaction with human hosts, and/or their potential to cause pandemics. The ultimate objective of such research is to better inform public health and preparedness efforts and/or development of medical countermeasures. Despite these important potential benefits, GOF research (GOFR) can pose risks regarding biosecurity and biosafety. In 2014 the administration of US President Barack Obama called for a “pause” on funding (and relevant research with existing US Government funding) of GOF experiments involving influenza, SARS, and MERS viruses in particular. With announcement of this pause, the US Government launched a “deliberative process” regarding risks and benefits of GOFR to inform future funding decisions—and the US National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity (NSABB) was tasked with making recommendations to the US Government on this matter. As part of this deliberative process the National Institutes of Health commissioned this Ethical Analysis White Paper, requesting that it provide (1) review and summary of ethical literature on GOFR, (2) identification and analysis of existing ethical and decision-making frameworks relevant to (i) the evaluation of risks and benefits of GOFR, (ii) decision-making about the conduct of GOF studies, and (iii) the development of US policy regarding GOFR (especially with respect to funding of GOFR), and (3) development of an ethical and decision-making framework that may be considered by NSABB when analyzing information provided by GOFR risk-benefit assessment, and when crafting its final recommendations (especially regarding policy decisions about funding of GOFR in particular). The ethical and decision-making framework ultimately developed is based on the idea that there are numerous ethically relevant dimensions upon which any given case of GOFR can fare better or worse (as opposed to there being necessary conditions that are either satisfied or not satisfied, where all must be satisfied in order for a given case of GOFR to be considered ethically acceptable): research imperative, proportionality, minimization of risks, manageability of risks, justice, good governance (i.e., democracy), evidence, and international outlook and engagement. Rather than drawing a sharp bright line between GOFR studies that are ethically acceptable and those that are ethically unacceptable, this framework is designed to indicate where any given study would fall on an ethical spectrum—where imaginable cases of GOFR might range from those that are most ethically acceptable (perhaps even ethically praiseworthy or ethically obligatory), at one end of the spectrum, to those that are most ethically problematic or unacceptable (and thus should not be funded, or conducted), at the other. The aim should be that any GOFR pursued (and/or funded) should be as far as possible towards the former end of the spectrum."
2520,"BACKGROUND: Infectious diseases such as SARS and H1N1 can significantly impact people’s lives and cause severe social and economic damages. Recent outbreaks have stressed the urgency of effective research on the dynamics of infectious disease spread. However, it is difficult to predict when and where outbreaks may emerge and how infectious diseases spread because many factors affect their transmission, and some of them may be unknown. METHODS: One feasible means to promptly detect an outbreak and track the progress of disease spread is to implement surveillance systems in regional or national health and medical centres. The accumulated surveillance data, including temporal, spatial, clinical, and demographic information can provide valuable information that can be exploited to better understand and model the dynamics of infectious disease spread. The aim of this work is to develop and empirically evaluate a stochastic model that allows the investigation of transmission patterns of infectious diseases in heterogeneous populations. RESULTS: We test the proposed model on simulation data and apply it to the surveillance data from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic in Hong Kong. In the simulation experiment, our model achieves high accuracy in parameter estimation (less than 10.0 % mean absolute percentage error). In terms of the forward prediction of case incidence, the mean absolute percentage errors are 17.3 % for the simulation experiment and 20.0 % for the experiment on the real surveillance data. CONCLUSION: We propose a stochastic model to study the dynamics of infectious disease spread in heterogeneous populations from temporal-spatial surveillance data. The proposed model is evaluated using both simulated data and the real data from the 2009 H1N1 epidemic in Hong Kong and achieves acceptable prediction accuracy. We believe that our model can provide valuable insights for public health authorities to predict the effect of disease spread and analyse its underlying factors and to guide new control efforts. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s40249-016-0199-5) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users."
2632,"BACKGROUND: In recent years, global public health security has been threatened by zoonotic disease emergence as exemplified by outbreaks of H5N1 and H1N1 influenza, SARS, and most recently Ebola and Zika. Additionally, endemic zoonoses, such as rabies, burden countries year after year, placing demands on limited finances and personnel. To survey the baseline status of the emerging and endemic zoonoses programmes of the Latin American and the Caribbean (LAC) countries, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) conducted a survey of priority emerging and endemic zoonoses, countries´ prioritization criteria and methodologies, and suggestions to strengthen countries capacities and regional approaches to zoonoses control. METHODS: A fillable online questionnaire was sent to the zoonoses programme managers of the Ministries of Health (MOH) and Ministries of Agriculture (MAg) of 33 LAC countries from January to April of 2015. The questionnaire comprised 36 single, multiple choice and open-ended questions to inform the objectives of the survey. A descriptive exploratory analysis was completed. RESULTS: Fifty-four ministries (26 MOH, 25 MAg, and 3 combined responses) in 31 LAC countries responded to the survey. Within the ministries, 22 (85%) MOH, 5 (20%) MAg, and 2 (67%) combined entities indicated they had specialized zoonoses units. For endemic zoonoses, 32 of 54 ministries responded that they conduct formal prioritization exercises, most of them annually (69%). The three priority endemic zoonoses for the MOHs were leptospirosis, rabies, and brucellosis while the three priorities for the MAgs were brucellosis, rabies, and tuberculosis. Diagnosis for rabies and leptospirosis were cited as the capacities most in need of development. The most needed cross-cutting capacity was coordination between stakeholders. For emerging zoonoses, 28 ministries performed formal prioritization exercises. The top prioritization criteria were probability of introduction into the country and impact. The three priority emerging zoonoses for the MOHs were Ebola viral disease, avian influenza, and Chikungunya while for the MAgs were avian influenza, bovine spongiform encephalopathy and West Nile virus disease. Surveillance for avian influenza and Ebola, and diagnosis for BSE were quoted as the capacities most needed. For all zoonoses, the majority of respondents (69%) ranked their relationship with the other Ministry as productive or very productive, and 31% minimally productive. Many countries requested a formal regional network, better regional communication and collaboration, and integrated surveillance. CONCLUSIONS: The survey is the first comprehensive effort to date to inform the status of zoonoses programmes in LAC. The information collected here will be used to develop a regional strategy for zoonoses (both endemic and emerging), increase efforts, advocacy, and promote prompt identification and management of EIDs and improvement of endemic programmes."
2681,"The Communicable Disease Control Medical Network (CDCMN), established in 2003 after the SARS outbreak in Taiwan, has undergone several phases of modification in structure and activation. The main organizing principles of the CDCMN are centralized isolation of patients with severe highly infectious diseases and centralization of medical resources, as well as a network of designated regional hospitals like those in other countries. The CDCMN is made up of a command system, responding hospitals, and supporting hospitals. It was tested and activated in response to the H1N1 influenza pandemic in 2009-10 and the Ebola outbreak in West Africa in 2014-2016, and it demonstrated high-level functioning and robust capacity. In this article, the history, structure, and operation of the CDCMN is introduced globally for the first time, and the advantages and challenges of this system are discussed. The Taiwanese experience shows an example of a collaboration between the public health system and the medical system that may help other public health authorities plan management and hospital preparedness for highly infectious diseases."
2832,"The majority of human emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) are zoonotic, with viruses originating in wild mammals of particular concern (e.g. HIV, Ebola, SARS)(1–3). Understanding patterns of viral diversity in wildlife and determinants of successful cross-species transmission, or spillover, are therefore key goals for pandemic surveillance programs(4). However, few analytical tools exist to identify which host species likely harbor the next human virus, or which viruses can cross species boundaries(5–7). Here we conduct the most comprehensive analysis yet of mammalian host-virus relationships and show that both the total number of viruses that infect a given species, and the proportion likely to be zoonotic are predictable. After controlling for research effort, the proportion of zoonotic viruses per species is predicted by phylogenetic relatedness to humans, host taxonomy, and human population within a species range – which may reflect human-wildlife contact. We demonstrate for the first time that bats harbor a significantly higher proportion of zoonotic viruses than all other mammalian orders. We identify the taxa and geographic regions with the largest estimated number of ‘missing viruses’ and ‘missing zoonoses’ and therefore of highest value for future surveillance. We then show that phylogenetic host breadth and other viral traits are significant predictors of zoonotic potential, providing a novel framework to assess if a newly discovered mammalian virus could infect people."
3006,"Memory CD8 T cells can provide protection from re-infection by respiratory viruses such as influenza and SARS. However, the relative contribution of memory CD8 T cells in providing protection against respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection is currently unclear. To address this knowledge gap, we utilized a prime-boost immunization approach to induce robust memory CD8 T cell responses in the absence of RSV-specific CD4 T cells and antibodies. Unexpectedly, RSV infection of mice with pre-existing CD8 T cell memory led to exacerbated weight loss, pulmonary disease, and lethal immunopathology. The exacerbated disease in immunized mice was not epitope-dependent and occurred despite a significant reduction in RSV viral titers. In addition, the lethal immunopathology was unique to the context of an RSV infection as mice were protected from a normally lethal challenge with a recombinant influenza virus expressing an RSV epitope. Memory CD8 T cells rapidly produced IFN-? following RSV infection resulting in elevated protein levels in the lung and periphery. Neutralization of IFN-? in the respiratory tract reduced morbidity and prevented mortality. These results demonstrate that in contrast to other respiratory viruses, RSV-specific memory CD8 T cells can induce lethal immunopathology despite mediating enhanced viral clearance."
3627,"BACKGROUND: To investigate the status of anti-tuberculosis treatment in critically ill patients, and to explore the value of APACHE-II score in guiding anti-tuberculosis treatment. METHODS: This analysis included critically ill patients with tuberculosis. The utility of APACHE-II score for predicting drug withdrawal was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. RESULTS: Among 320 patients enrolled (58 ± 22 years; 256 males), 147 (45.9%) had drugs withdrawn. The drug withdrawal group had higher APACHE-II score (median [interquartile range]: 21 [3–52] vs. 17 [4–42] points), higher CD4%, lower hemoglobin level, higher rates of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and chronic renal failure, and lower rate of extrapulmonary tuberculosis (P < 0.05). Logistic regression identified APACHE-II score > 18 (odds ratio [95% confidence interval]: 2.099 [1.321–3.334], P < 0.01), COPD (1.913 [1.028–3.561], P < 0.05) and hemoglobin level (0.987 [0.977–0.997], P < 0.05) as independent factors associated with drug withdrawal. At an optimal cutoff of 18.5, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of APACHE-II score for predicting drug withdrawal was 59.2, 61.8, 56.9 and 64.1%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: APACHE-II score > 18 points might predict patient tolerance of anti-tuberculosis treatment."
3877,"ADP-ribosylation is a reversible chemical modification catalysed by ADP-ribosyltransferases such as PARPs that utilize nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) as a cofactor to transfer monomer or polymers of ADP-ribose nucleotide onto macromolecular targets such as proteins and DNA. ADP-ribosylation plays an important role in several biological processes such as DNA repair, transcription, chromatin remodelling, host-virus interactions, cellular stress response and many more. Using biochemical methods we identify RNA as a novel target of reversible mono-ADP-ribosylation. We demonstrate that the human PARPs - PARP10, PARP11 and PARP15 as well as a highly diverged PARP homologue TRPT1, ADP-ribosylate phosphorylated ends of RNA. We further reveal that ADP-ribosylation of RNA mediated by PARP10 and TRPT1 can be efficiently reversed by several cellular ADP-ribosylhydrolases (PARG, TARG1, MACROD1, MACROD2 and ARH3), as well as by MACROD-like hydrolases from VEEV and SARS viruses. Finally, we show that TRPT1 and MACROD homologues in bacteria possess activities equivalent to the human proteins. Our data suggest that RNA ADP-ribosylation may represent a widespread and physiologically relevant form of reversible ADP-ribosylation signalling."
4452,"About 30% of patients with impaired cardiac function have ventricular dyssynchrony and seek cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT). In this study, we demonstrate synchronized biventricular (BiV) pacing in a leadless fashion by implementing miniaturized and wirelessly powered pacemakers. With their flexible form factors, two pacemakers were implanted epicardially on the right and left ventricles of a porcine model and were inductively powered at 13.56 MHz and 40.68 MHz industrial, scientific, and medical (ISM) bands, respectively. The power consumption of these pacemakers is reduced to µW-level by a novel integrated circuit design, which considerably extends the maximum operating distance. Leadless BiV pacing is demonstrated for the first time in both open-chest and closed-chest porcine settings. The clinical outcomes associated with different interventricular delays are verified through electrophysiologic and hemodynamic responses. The closed-chest pacing only requires the external source power of 0.3 W and 0.8 W at 13.56 MHz and 40.68 MHz, respectively, which leads to specific absorption rates (SARs) 2–3 orders of magnitude lower than the safety regulation limit. This work serves as a basis for future wirelessly powered leadless pacemakers that address various cardiac resynchronization challenges."
4701,"Outbreaks of infectious diseases such as SARS and influenza can have a profound impact on society. Therefore, training epidemiologists in infectious diseases control is of crucial importance. The German Postgraduate training in Applied Epidemiology (PAE) at the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) and the European Programme for Intervention Epidemiology Training (EPIET) are striving to meet these challenges. Currently, 27 and 12 persons of German origin have joined PAE and EPIET, respectively. A total of 17 out of the 36 alumni started working at the RKI, regional or local German health authorities after completing their training. Since 2006, the number of yearly admitted fellows increased from 3 to 6 in PAE, and 9 to 19 in EPIET and 5 state health departments have been added as training sites. The collaboration between EPIET and PAE has been strengthened and diversified in recent years. Alumni of these programs will play a key role in the control of infectious diseases in Germany and Europe."
4710,"Pandemic preparedness has become a catch phrase for politicians, government agencies and communities, both nationally and internationally. This is due to the increasing number of infectious diseases emergencies that are important challenges for health protection authorities, which was shown impressively when SARS emerged as the first pandemic in this millennium. In Germany, effective and efficient infection control is complex, with local health protection authorities having their own responsibilities. In the case of an emergency epidemic, regional health departments are responsible. Having authority over these are authorities on the federal state level as well as on the federal level. For the European Community, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) was established. The mission of this agency is to identify, assess and communicate current and emerging threats to human health posed by infectious diseases."
4733,"Although diseases such as influenza, tuberculosis and SARS are transmitted through an environmentally mediated mechanism, most modeling work on these topics is based on the concepts of infectious contact and direct transmission. In this paper we use a paradigm model to show that environmental transmission appears like direct transmission in the case where the pathogen persists little time in the environment. Furthermore, we formulate conditions for the validity of this modeling approximation and we illustrate them numerically for the cases of cholera and influenza. According to our results based on recently published parameter estimates, the direct transmission approximation fails for both cholera and influenza. While environmental transmission is typically chosen over direct transmission in modeling cholera, this is not the case for influenza."
4748,"In a short review the national and international reception of the German guidelines for reprocessing flexible endoscopes is presented. The recommendations of the guidelines are discussed in view of recent knowledge on old problems such as prion inactivation and new infectious diseases and new microorganisms such as SARS, avian influenza and C. difficile. New disinfectants and new methods for endoscope disinfection are mentioned, the importance of careful cleaning is underlined. The German guidelines of the Robert Koch Institute and the US Multi-Society guidelines, published in 2003, are compared. The discrepancies concerning recommendations for water quality for final rinsing and need of microbiological controls of endoscope reprocessing are stressed. Aspects not mentioned in the German guidelines, e.g. duration of storage after reprocessing and risk of infection transmission by the endo-washer, are discussed."
outbreaks of infectious diseases that have potentially great animal or human health consequences, and which can result in such severe economic losses that immediate sets of measures need to be taken to curb the spread. During an outbreak of such a disease, the environment that the infectious agent experiences is therefore changing due to the subsequent control measures taken. In our model, we introduce a general branching process in a changing (but not random) environment. With this branching process, we estimate the probability of extinction and the expected number of infected individuals for different control measures. We also use this branching process to calculate the generating function of the number of infected individuals at any given moment. The model and methods are designed using important infections of farmed animals, such as classical swine fever, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza as motivating examples, but have a wider application, for example to emerging human infections that lead to strict quarantine of cases and suspected cases (e.g. SARS) and contact and movement restrictions."
4771,
4837,"With the emergence of new viruses, such as the SARS virus and the avian influenza virus, the importance of investigations on the genetic basis of viral infections becomes clear. Sendai virus causes a localized respiratory tract infection in rodents, while a mutant, F1-R, causes a systemic infection. It has been suggested that two determinants are responsible for the systemic infection caused by F1-R [Okada et al (1998) Arch Virol 143:2343–2352]. The primary determinant of the pantropism is the enhanced proteolytic cleavability of the fusion (F) protein of F1-R, which allows the virus to undergo multiple rounds of replication in many different organs, whereas wild-type virus can only undergo multiple rounds of replication in the lungs. The enhanced cleavability of F1-R F was previously attributed to an amino acid change at F115 that is adjacent to the cleavage site at amino acid 116. Secondly, wild-type virus buds only from the apical domain of bronchial epithelium, releasing virus into the lumen of the respiratory tract, whereas F1-R buds from both apical and basolateral domains. Thus, virus is released into the basement membrane where it can easily gain access to the bloodstream for dissemination. The microtubule disruption is attributed to two amino acid differences in M protein. To confirm that the F and M gene mutations described above are solely responsible for the phenotypic differences seen in wld-type versus F1-R infections, reverse genetics was used to construct recombinant Sendai viruses with various combinations of the mutations found in the M and F genes of F1-R. Plaque assays were performed with or without trypsin addition. A recombinant virus containing all F1-R M and F mutations formed plaques in LLC-MK2 cells and underwent multiple cycles of replication without trypsin addition. To clarify which mutation(s) are necessary for plaque formation, plaque assays were done using other recombinant viruses. A virus with only the F115 change, which was previously thought to be the only change important for plaque formation of F 1-R F, did not confer upon the virus the ability to form plaques without the addition of trypsin. Another virus with the F115 and both M changes gave the same result. Therefore, more than one mutation in the F gene contributes to the ability of F1-R to form plaques without trypsin addition."
4872,"Emerging viruses represent a continuous threat to human health and to farmed animals, as evidenced on multiple occasions by outbreaks of influenza, henipavirus and SARS. Knowledge about the diversity of viromes present in reservoir species can lead to a better understanding of the origin of emerging pathogens. In this study, we extend the knowledge of astrovirus diversity in pigs by reporting the genetic characterization of an unknown astrovirus lineage. Phylogenetic analyses provided evidence that this porcine astrovirus lineage is unique and does not appear to share a recent common ancestor with any known mamastrovirus. The data reported in this study extend the number of porcine astrovirus lineages to a total of five, all of which most likely represent distinct species of different origins."
5185,"Coughs and sneezes feature turbulent, multiphase flows that may contain pathogen-bearing droplets of mucosalivary fluid. As such, they can contribute to the spread of numerous infectious diseases, including influenza and SARS. The range of contamination of the droplets is largely determined by their size. However, major uncertainties on the drop size distributions persist. Here, we report direct observation of the physical mechanisms of droplet formation at the exit of the mouth during sneezing. Specifically, we use high-speed imaging to directly examine the fluid fragmentation at the exit of the mouths of healthy subjects. We reveal for the first time that the breakup of the fluid into droplets continues to occur outside of the respiratory tract during violent exhalations. We show that such breakup involves a complex cascade of events from sheets, to bag bursts, to ligaments, which finally break into droplets. Finally, we reveal that the viscoelasticity of the mucosalivary fluid plays an important role in delaying fragmentation by causing the merger of the droplet precursors that form along stretched filaments; thereby affecting the final drop size distribution farther downstream. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s00348-015-2078-4) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users."
5222,"Eleven issues highlight the relation between globalization and health: 1. Globalization endangers health. Risks are spreading. AIDS and SARS are examples. 2. Global alliances are emerging to protect health, especially fighting AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. 3. In many millennium declarations, health was declared a worldwide development goal. 4. The international development cooperation for health is ailing everywhere despite three good reasons to make health a priority. 5. Good health supports good politics and national security. 6. The lack of security in health is an essential trap of poverty and increases population growth. 7. Health has essential macroeconomic benefits. Leading economists have made this clear. 8. Thus, health and education are true keys to social and economic development. Brains and bodies are the most essential factors of production. 9. “Empowerment in security creates opportunities”. This new motto underlines the strategic importance of health literacy and social health insurance. 10. International or global health is a leitmotiv of this decade of development. 11. Globalization requires powerful ethics to gain a human face. Professional ethics and a rebellious civil society ought to be allies. Current globalization is both a threat and a positive challenge, indeed."
5393,"This study investigated the feature of Chinese peoples’ perception of SARS by surveying a stratified sample of 4231 people from 17 cities in China, and primarily proposed a risk perception centered predictive model of psychological behavior in crisis. The results indicated that, negative SARS-related information, especially information of personal interest, will arouse people’s risk perception of high level, and lead to irrational nervousness or scare; but positive SARS-related information, including recovery information and that with measures taken by government, can decrease the level of risk perception. In the middle of May, people felt the highest level of risk on the SARS pathogens; the following are the physical health condition and infectivity after recovering from SARS; they are factors that need special attention. SEM result analyses supported our hypotheses in that SARS-related information affect people’s coping behavior and mental health through their risk perception, the four indices of risk assessment, feeling of nervousness, coping behavior and mental health are effective presentimental indices for public psychological behavior in risky events."
5431,"We propose a compartmental disease transmission model with an asymptomatic (or subclinical) infective class to study the role of asymptomatic infection in the transmission dynamics of infectious diseases with asymptomatic infectives, e.g., influenza. Analytical results are obtained using the respective ratios of susceptible, exposed (incubating), and asymptomatic classes to the clinical symptomatic infective class. Conditions are given for bistability of equilibria to occur, where trajectories with distinct initial values could result in either a major outbreak where the disease spreads to the whole population or a lesser outbreak where some members of the population remain uninfected. This dynamic behavior did not arise in a SARS model without asymptomatic infective class studied by Hsu and Hsieh (SIAM J. Appl. Math. 66(2), 627–647, 2006). Hence, this illustrates that depending on the initial states, control of a disease outbreak with asymptomatic infections may involve more than simply reducing the reproduction number. Moreover, the presence of asymptomatic infections could result in either a positive or negative impact on the outbreak, depending on different sets of conditions on the parameters, as illustrated with numerical simulations. Biological interpretations of the analytical and numerical results are also given."
5503,"Hepatitis E virus (HEV) is a causative agent of acute hepatitis and jaundice. The number of human infections is approximated to be over 20 million cases per year. The transmission is mainly via the fecal-oral route and contaminated water and food are considered to be a major source of infection. As a mouse model is not available, a recent development of a cell culture-adapted HEV strain (47832c) is considered as a very important tools for molecular analysis of HEV pathogenesis in cells. Previously, we demonstrated that HEV-encoded methyltransferase (MeT) encoded by the 47832c strain inhibits MDA5- and RIG-I-mediated activation of interferon ? (IFN-?) promoter. Here, we report that MeT impairs the phosphorylation and activation of interferon regulatory factor 3 and the p65 subunit of NF-?B in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, the MeT encoded by the 47832c, but not that of HEV clinical or field isolates (SAR-55, Mex-14, KC-1, and ZJ-1), displays the inhibitory effect. A deeper understanding of MeTmediated suppression of IFN-? expression would provide basis of the cell culture adaptation of HEV."
5504,"Outbreaks of infectious diseases such as HIV and the much televised and attention-getting outbreaks of diseases such as Ebola, Hantaviruses, and the most recent outbreak of SARS have induced a significant new interest in the formulations and more importantly the science of vaccinology, which has previously to a large extent been conducted empirically. Our laboratory has focused on the use of recombinant nonhuman primate cytokines as adjunctive therapies for inducing antigen-specific immune responses in monkeys because most recombinant human cytokines appear to be immunogenic. This article provides a summary of our work with such cytokines, which includes attempts to define optimum dosing schedules that lead to optimal primary and lasting memory antigen-specific immune responses."
5579,"PURPOSE: Pathogenic variations in genes encoding aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (ARSs) are increasingly associated with human disease. Clinical features of autosomal recessive ARS deficiencies appear very diverse and without apparent logic. We searched for common clinical patterns to improve disease recognition, insight into pathophysiology, and clinical care. METHODS: Symptoms were analyzed in all patients with recessive ARS deficiencies reported in literature, supplemented with unreported patients evaluated in our hospital. RESULTS: In literature, we identified 107 patients with AARS, DARS, GARS, HARS, IARS, KARS, LARS, MARS, RARS, SARS, VARS, YARS, and QARS deficiencies. Common symptoms (defined as present in ?4/13 ARS deficiencies) included abnormalities of the central nervous system and/or senses (13/13), failure to thrive, gastrointestinal symptoms, dysmaturity, liver disease, and facial dysmorphisms. Deep phenotyping of 5 additional patients with unreported compound heterozygous pathogenic variations in IARS, LARS, KARS, and QARS extended the common phenotype with lung disease, hypoalbuminemia, anemia, and renal tubulopathy. CONCLUSION: We propose a common clinical phenotype for recessive ARS deficiencies, resulting from insufficient aminoacylation activity to meet translational demand in specific organs or periods of life. Assuming residual ARS activity, adequate protein/amino acid supply seems essential instead of the traditional replacement of protein by glucose in patients with metabolic diseases."
5731,A race to claim patents on the SARS virus raises questions about the patent system's ability to cope with genomics.
5879,The world is celebrating the news that the SARS outbreak now seems to be contained. But the epidemic has revealed gaps in our defences against emerging viral diseases and the ever-looming threat of a flu pandemic.
5946,"From the moment the mysterious illness known as SARS was declared a global threat to health, virologists were racing to develop a diagnostic test. Alison Abbott visits the tiny German lab that got there first."
6036,"Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and Mycobacterium tuberculosis annually cause 3 million and 2 million deaths, respectively. Last year, 600,000 individuals, doubly infected with HIV and M. tuberculosis, died. Since World War I, approximately 150 million people have succumbed to these two infections—more total deaths than in all wars in the last 2,000 years. Although the perceived threats of new infections such as SARS, new variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and anthrax are real, these outbreaks have caused less than 1,000 deaths globally, a death toll AIDS and tuberculosis exact every 2 h. In 2003, 40 million people were infected with HIV, 2 billion with M. tuberculosis, and 15 million with both. Last year, 5 million and 50 million were newly infected with HIV or M. tuberculosis, respectively, with 2 million new double infections. Better control measures are urgently needed."
6272,"Some researchers claim that nation states have begun to conform to an internationally uniform response to infectious disease. A potential barrier to this development are the distinct systems of disease control that industrialized nation states have developed over long periods of time. I explain the divergent public policy responses of the United Kingdom and the United States to SARS, pandemic influenza and Ebola by taking a historical approach. I examine the different medical theories of disease that existed in Britain and America in the nineteenth century as each country began to develop its public health system. I also examine where in the state apparatus disease control was located in each country. In Britain disease control was historically part of the welfare sector of the state, while in the United States it was originally operated by the military. These different starting conditions helped push Britain and the United States along different paths of disease control and this helps explain why they respond to contemporary diseases in such different ways. The ‘historical durability’ national styles of disease may make it more difficult for the international community to enact a truly uniform 
6353,"No formal system exists to review trade restrictions imposed during international public health emergencies rapidly. Failure to put one in place creates disincentives for surveillance and reporting, thereby undermining protection efforts. The 2003 SARS outbreak exposed weaknesses in global governance that caused uncoordinated public health and economic responses. New International Health Regulations (IHR), applied first during the 2009 H1N1 influenza outbreak, demonstrated improvement. Yet they failed to allow for management of public health emergencies in a way that balanced threats to health and those to economies and trade. Establishment of a joint WHO–WTO committee to adjudicate these conflicts might better achieve that balance."
7288,"It is important to predict the environment around the breathing human because inhalation of virus (avian influenza, SARS) is recently severe worldwide problem, and air pollution caused by diesel emission particle (DEP) and asbestos attract a great deal of attention. In the present study, three?dimensional numerical simulation was carried out to predict unsteady flows around a breathing human and how suspended particulate matter (SPM, diameter?1 ?m) reaches the human nose in inhalation and exhalation. In the calculation, we find out smaller breathing angle and the closer distance between the human nose and pollutant region are effective in the inhalation of SPM."
7293,"Epidemics modeling has been particularly growing in the past years. In epidemics studies, mathematical modeling is used in particular to reach a better understanding of some neglected diseases (dengue, malaria, …) and of new emerging ones (SARS, influenza A,….) of big agglomerates. Such studies offer new challenges both from the modeling point of view (searching for simple models which capture the main characteristics of the disease spreading), data analysis and mathematical complexity. We are facing often with complex networks especially when modeling the city dynamics. Such networks can be static (in first approximation) and homogeneous, static and not homogeneous and/or not static (when taking into account the city structure, micro?climates, people circulation, etc.). The objective being studying epidemics dynamics and being able to predict its spreading."
7863,Enzyme immunoassays (EIAs) to detect and quantify antibodies against respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and RSV proteins in human plasma or sera are described. The first EIA uses RSV lysate antigens produced in HEp-2 cell line. The second EIA uses RSV F or G gene-expressed antigen in HEp-2 cells. The third EIA uses 30-amino acid synthetic peptides from central conserved region of G protein of RSV A2 or RSV B1 virus and a peptide from the SARS CoV nucleoprotein as a negative control peptide. All three EIAs have been evaluated for detecting and quantifying the respective antibodies in human sera or plasma.
7896,"The outbreaks of SARS, avian influenza, and Nipah virus in Asian countries clearly demonstrated that new highly infectious agents periodically emerge at the human–animal interface. The experiences of regional countries with prevention and control of avian influenza, SARS have reinforced the need for sustained, well-coordinated, multi-sector, multi-disciplinary, community-based actions to address emerging disease threats. ‘One Health’ is a cost-effective, sustainable, and practical approach to find solutions for problems which need holistic, multidisciplinary approaches, particularly in resource-constrained countries. While there is a growing recognition of One Health, it has to be translated from concept into actions through country level activities that are relevant for specific situations."
7907,"Food Safety is at the center of One Health. Many, if not most, of all important zoonoses relate in some way to animals in the food production chain. Therefore, the food becomes an important vehicle for many, but not all, of these zoonotic pathogens. One of the major issues in food safety over the latest decennia has been the lack of cross-sectoral collaboration across the food production chain. Major food safety events have been significantly affected by the lack of collaboration between the animal health, the food control, and the human health sector. Examples range from BSE and E. coli outbreaks over dioxin crises to intentional melamine contamination. One Health formulates clearly both the need for and the benefit of cross-sectoral collaboration. In this chapter, we will focus on the human health risk related to zoonotic microorganisms present both in food animals and food from these animals, and typically transmitted to humans through food. We focus on these issues because they are very important in relation to the human disease burden, but also because this is the area where some experience of cross-sectoral collaboration already exist. Food related zoonoses can be separated in three major classes: parasites, bacteria, and viruses. While parasites often relate to very specific animal hosts and contribute significantly to the human disease burden, virus have often been related to major, well-published global outbreaks, e.g. SARS and avian- and swine-influenza. The bacterial zoonoses on the other hand often result in sporadic, but very wide-spread disease cases, resulting in a major disease burden in all countries, e.g. Salmonella and Campylobacter. Next to these traditional zoonotic problems, the use of antimicrobials in (food) animals has also caused the emergence of antimicrobial resistant (AMR) zoonotic bacteria. It is important to realize the difference in the nature of disease epidemiology, as well as, in society’s reaction to these diseases in different socio-economic settings. Some diseases have global epidemic—or pandemic—potential, resulting in dramatic action from international organizations and national agricultural—and health authorities in most countries, for instance as was the case with avian influenza. Other diseases relate to the industrialized food production chain and have been—in some settings—dealt with efficiently through farm-to-fork preventive action in the animal sector, e.g. Salmonella. Finally, an important group of zoonotic diseases are ‘neglected diseases’ in poor settings, while they have been basically eradicated in affluent economies through vaccination and culling policies in the animal sector, e.g. Brucella."
7937,Porcine influenza is a viral disease. Along with other viral diseases such as avian influenza or SARS it may lead to serious consequences for the population. The disease occurs after infection with the influenza virus A/H1N1. Reassortment of RNA genome sequences of porcine and human influenza viruses can lead to new antigenic variants (antigen shift) with human pathogenic features. The present articles supplies recent information with relevance for occupational health.
7939,"A critical but unanswered question is what defines each individual’s pre-morbid susceptibility to infection? w e propose that individuals must have an “immune haplotype” that shapes their response to infectious agents. Infection is a balance between the intrinsic virulence of the infectious agent and the host defenses. Recent viral outbreaks of SARS and influenza serve to illustrate this point as these viruses cause severe disease in certain individuals, yet there are others in whom the same infectious challenge results in minimal symptoms. On the other hand it might be that those self same people who are resistance to one particular viral infection might be susceptible to other infection challenges. Similar rules can apply to susceptibility to bacterial infections."
7947,"Dressing the problem of virtual screening is a long-term goal in the drug discovery field, which if properly solved, can significantly shorten new drugs’ R&D cycle. The scoring functionality that evaluates the fitness of the docking result is one of the major challenges in virtual screening. In general, scoring functionality in docking requires a large amount of floating-point calculations, which usually takes several weeks or even months to be finished. This time-consuming procedure is unacceptable, especially when highly fatal and infectious virus arises such as SARS and H1N1, which forces the scoring task to be done in a limited time. This paper presents how to leverage the computational power of GPU to accelerate Dock6’s (http://dock.compbio.ucsf.edu/DOCK_6/) Amber (J. Comput. Chem. 25: 1157–1174, 2004) scoring with NVIDIA CUDA (NVIDIA Corporation Technical Staff, Compute Unified Device Architecture – Programming Guide, NVIDIA Corporation, 2008) (Compute Unified Device Architecture) platform. We also discuss many factors that will greatly influence the performance after porting the Amber scoring to GPU, including thread management, data transfer, and divergence hidden. Our experiments show that the GPU-accelerated Amber scoring achieves a 6.5× speedup with respect to the original version running on AMD dual-core CPU for the same problem size. This acceleration makes the Amber scoring more competitive and efficient for large-scale virtual screening problems."
8077,"Transmission electron microscopy has had a profound impact on our knowledge and understanding of viruses and bacteria. The 1000-fold improvement in resolution provided by electron microscopy (EM) has allowed visualization of viruses, the existence of which had previously only been suspected as the causative agents of transmissible infectious disease. Viruses are grouped into families based on their morphology. Viruses from different families look different and these morphological variances are the basis for identification of viruses by EM. Electron microscopy initially came to prominence in diagnostic microbiology in the late 1960s when it was used in the rapid diagnosis of smallpox, by differentiating, on a morphological basis, poxviruses from the less problematic herpesviruses in skin lesions. Subsequently, the technique was employed in the diagnosis of other viral infections, such as hepatitis B and parvovirus B19. Electron microscopy has led to the discovery of many new viruses, most notably the various viruses associated with gastroenteritis, for which it remained the principal diagnostic method until fairly recent times. Development of molecular techniques, which offer greater sensitivity and often the capacity to easily process large numbers of samples, has replaced EM in many areas of diagnostic virology. Hence the role of EM in clinical virology is evolving with less emphasis on diagnosis and more on research, although this is likely only to be undertaken in specialist centres. However, EM still offers tremendous advantages to the microbiologist, both in the speed of diagnosis and the potential for detecting, by a single test, any viral pathogen or even multiple pathogens present within a sample. There is continuing use of EM for the investigation of new and emerging agents, such as SARS and human monkeypox virus. Furthermore, EM forms a vital part of the national emergency response programme of many countries and will provide a frontline diagnostic service in the event of a bioterrorism incident, particularly in the scenario of a deliberate release of smallpox virus. In the field of bacteriology, EM is of little use diagnostically, although some bacterial pathogens can be identified in biopsy material processed for EM examination. Electron microscopy has been used, however, to elucidate the structure and function of many bacterial features, such as flagellae, fimbriae and spores and in the study of bacteriophages. The combined use of EM and gold-labelled antibodies provides a powerful tool for the ultrastructural localisation of bacterial and viral antigens."
8560,"The DSM-III, DSM-IV, DSM-IV-TR and ICD-10 have judiciously minimized discussion of etiologies to distance clinical psychiatry from Freudian psychoanalysis. With this goal mostly achieved, discussion of etiological factors should be reintroduced into the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-V). A research agenda for the DSM-V advocated the “development of a pathophysiologically based classification system”. The author critically reviews the neuroevolutionary literature on stress-induced and fear circuitry disorders and related amygdala-driven, species-atypical fear behaviors of clinical severity in adult humans. Over 30 empirically testable/falsifiable predictions are presented. It is noted that in DSM-IV-TR and ICD-10, the classification of stress and fear circuitry disorders is neither mode-of-acquisition-based nor brain-evolution-based. For example, snake phobia (innate) and dog phobia (overconsolidational) are clustered together. Similarly, research on blood-injection-injury-type-specific phobia clusters two fears different in their innateness: 1) an arguably ontogenetic memory-trace-overconsolidation-based fear (hospital phobia) and 2) a hardwired (innate) fear of the sight of one's blood or a sharp object penetrating one's skin. Genetic architecture-charting of fear-circuitry-related traits has been challenging. Various, non-phenotype-based architectures can serve as targets for research. In this article, the author will propose one such alternative genetic architecture. This article was inspired by the following: A) Nesse's “Smoke-Detector Principle”, B) the increasing suspicion that the “smooth” rather than “lumpy” distribution of complex psychiatric phenotypes (including fear-circuitry disorders) may in some cases be accounted for by oligogenic (and not necessarily polygenic) transmission, and C) insights from the initial sequence of the chimpanzee genome and comparison with the human genome by the Chimpanzee Sequencing and Analysis Consortium published in late 2005. Neuroevolutionary insights relevant to fear circuitry symptoms that primarily emerge overconsolidationally (especially Combat related Posttraumatic Stress Disorder) are presented. Also introduced is a human-evolution-based principle for clustering innate fear traits. The “Neuroevolutionary Time-depth Principle” of innate fears proposed in this article may be useful in the development of a neuroevolution-based taxonomic re-clustering of stress-triggered and fear-circuitry disorders in DSM-V. Four broad clusters of evolved fear circuits are proposed based on their time-depths: 1) Mesozoic (mammalian-wide) circuits hardwired by wild-type alleles driven to fixation by Mesozoic selective sweeps; 2) Cenozoic (simian-wide) circuits relevant to many specific phobias; 3) mid Paleolithic and upper Paleolithic (Homo sapiens-specific) circuits (arguably resulting mostly from mate-choice-driven stabilizing selection); 4) Neolithic circuits (arguably mostly related to stabilizing selection driven by gene–culture co-evolution). More importantly, the author presents evolutionary perspectives on warzone-related PTSD, Combat-Stress Reaction, Combat-related Stress, Operational-Stress, and other deployment-stress-induced symptoms. The Neuroevolutionary Time-depth Principle presented in this article may help explain the dissimilar stress-resilience levels following different types of acute threat to survival of oneself or one's progency (aka DSM-III and DSM-V PTSD Criterion-A events). PTSD rates following exposure to lethal inter-group violence (combat, warzone exposure or intentionally caused disasters such as terrorism) are usually 5–10 times higher than rates following large-scale natural disasters such as forest fires, floods, hurricanes, volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes. The author predicts that both intentionally-caused large-scale bioevent-disasters, as well as natural bioevents such as SARS and avian flu pandemics will be an exception and are likely to be followed by PTSD rates approaching those that follow warzone exposure. During bioevents, Amygdala-driven and locus-coeruleus-driven epidemic pseudosomatic symptoms may be an order of magnitude more common than infection-caused cytokine-driven symptoms. Implications for the red cross and FEMA are discussed. It is also argued that hospital phobia as well as dog phobia, bird phobia and bat phobia require re-taxonomization in DSM-V in a new “overconsolidational disorders” category anchored around PTSD. The overconsolidational spectrum category may be conceptualized as straddling the fear circuitry spectrum disorders and the affective spectrum disorders categories, and may be a category for which Pitman's secondary prevention propranolol regimen may be specifically indicated as a “morning after pill” intervention. Predictions are presented regarding obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) (e.g., female-pattern hoarding vs. male-pattern hoarding) and “culture-bound” acute anxiety symptoms (taijin-kyofusho, koro, shuk yang, shook yong, suo yang, rok-joo, jinjinia-bemar, karoshi, gwarosa, Voodoo death). Also discussed are insights relevant to pseudoneurological symptoms and to the forthcoming Dissociative-Conversive disorders category in DSM-V, including what the author terms fright-triggered acute pseudo-localized symptoms (i.e., pseudoparalysis, pseudocerebellar imbalance, psychogenic blindness, pseudoseizures, and epidemic sociogenic illness). Speculations based on studies of the human abnormal-spindle-like, microcephaly-associated (ASPM) gene, the microcephaly primary autosomal recessive (MCPH) gene, and the forkhead box p2 (FOXP2) gene are made and incorporated into what is termed “The pre-FOXP2 Hypothesis of Blood-Injection-Injury Phobia.” Finally, the author argues for a non-reductionistic fusion of “distal (evolutionary) neurobiology” with clinical “proximal neurobiology,” utilizing neurological heuristics. It is noted that the value of re-clustering fear traits based on behavioral ethology, human-phylogenomics-derived endophenotypes and on ontogenomics (gene–environment interactions) can be confirmed or disconfirmed using epidemiological or twin studies and psychiatric genomics."
9438,"Besmetting op het werk kan een reëel gevaar voor de volksgezondheid betekenen. Tijdens de SARS- en kippeninfluenza-epidemie van vorig jaar, maar ook bij de voorjaarsinfluenza en de tbc-uitbraak in een supermarkt te Zeist van dit jaar, kwam duidelijk naar voren hoezeer volksgezondheid en werknemersgezondheid samenhangen. Bij SARS waren de eerste patiënten 
9709,"Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) belongs to the Coronaviridae family and causes malabsorptive watery diarrhea, vomiting, dehydration and imbalanced blood electrolytes in pigs. Since the 1970s, PED outbreaks have become a source of problems in pig producing countries all over the world, causing large economic losses for pig producers. Although the infection in adults is not fatal, in naïve suckling piglets mortality is close to 100%. In this study, we investigated genome?wide differences between dead and recovered suckling piglets from commercial farms after PED outbreaks. Samples from 262 animals (156 dead and 106 recovered) belonging to several commercial lines were collected from five different farms in three different countries (USA, Canada and Germany) and genotyped with the porcine 80K SNP chip. Mean F (st) value was calculated in 1?Mb non?overlapping windows between dead and recovered individuals, and the results were normalized to find differences within the comparison. Seven windows with high divergence between dead and recovered were detected—five on chromosome 2, one on chromosome 4 and one on chromosome 15—in total encompassing 152 genes. Several of these genes are either under? or overexpressed in many virus infections, including Coronaviridae (such as SARS?CoV). A total of 32 genes are included in one or more Gene Ontology terms that can be related to PED development, such as Golgi apparatus, as well as mechanisms generally linked to resilience or diarrhea development (cell proliferation, ion transport, ATPase activity). Taken together this information provides a first genomic picture of PEDV resilience in suckling piglets."
9992,"Abstract Two main types of safety procedures must be applied to biological products, including plasma derivatives: (i) preventive procedures and (ii) elimination procedures.Prevention includes epidemiological control of donor populations; checks on each donor’s health condition; analysis of each donation for the main pathogens using serological methods; additional analysis of all plasma for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), hepatitis A virus (HAV) and the B19 virus, using nucleic acid amplification techniques (NAT). A 60 days or longer inventory hold of all plasma donations is applied, to allow additional time to discard previous donations from potential seroconverting or otherwise rejectable donors.Elimination procedures minimize the low residual risk of transmitting pathogens, including unknown or previously undetected ones. Since the introduction 20 years ago of solvent?detergent treatment, very effective against enveloped viruses (HIV, HBV, HCV, West Nile virus, SARS, avian influenza virus etc), there have been no known cases of transmission of this type of pathogens by products manufactured according to this procedure. Other inactivation procedures such as pasteurization, dry?heat or nanofiltration may prove equally effective. In addition, dry?heat treatment and nanofiltration are capable of effectively eliminating non?enveloped viruses (HAV, B19 virus). Recent studies show that the B19 virus is much more sensitive to heat (in lyophilized state or by pasteurization) and acid pH than previously thought.Although there is no evidence for the transmission of classic transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) through blood or blood?products transfusion, four possible cases have been reported in the United Kingdom involving transmission by non?leukoreduced blood components of the agent that causes variant Creutzfeldt?Jakob Disease (vCJD), a disease linked to the outbreak of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) which took place in that country. However, there are no cases of human TSE (classic or variant) transmission by plasma?derived products. Analytical methods capable of detecting the vCJD agent in patients’ brains (where high titres are found) and other tissues (such as the spleen, appendix and lymph nodes, where much lower concentrations are found) are unable to detect the agent in blood or plasma from patients with vCJD, even in the clinical phase of the disease. Experiments by Grifols and other groups show that the capacity of the production processes to eliminate vCJD agent models is many orders of magnitude greater than the maximum expected load of the agent. In this regard, the efficacy of precipitation, affinity chromatography, depth filtration and nanofiltration are particularly notable."
